Adding KPI options to our community doc (#124)
UMAprotocol/docs: docs/community/KPI-options.md

> ---

Reviewer: I think this should live in a subsection within our EMP. @smb2796 do you agree?

Reviewer 2: Personally I'd like to avoid having multiple levels of nesting within the sidebar. I'd be fine with having it in the `Synthetic Tokens` section, but also think it works in community. Don't feel strongly one way or the other!

title: KPI Options
sidebar_label: KPI Options
---

> ## KPI Option Overview

Reviewer 2: Suggest removing this header.

> Community options, growth options or performance options - the naming is not the point, more that these options are designed to create aligned incentives with your community to grow. We have decided to call them *Key Performance Indicator options* or *KPI options*. 

Reviewer 3: Key Performance Indicator (KPI) Options are way for your protocol to encourage your community to participate in its growth by creating aligned incentives, where your community benefits from achieving the targets that you would like to see met.

Reviewer: I like Mhairi's comments but also lets not recreate what has already been made. I like framing it as a new incentivization mechanism. 

https://medium.com/uma-project/uma-kpi-options-and-airdrop-bae86be16ce4

Reviewer 2: I also like @mhairimca's edit. I like the excitement in your introduction Chandler, but I'm not sure it conveys much information.

> ### What are these options? 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### What are KPI options? 
```

Using UMA’s Expiring Multi Party (EMP) contract template, any project can create an incentive mechanism which offers rewards to their targeted community in exchange for the community’s support in helping them achieve their Key Performance Metrics. 

> At a high-level, KPI options are synthetic ERC20 tokens that can be redeemed , but only if the project hits it’s predetermined KPI targets before expiry. These targets are up to each project and could be TVL, number of contracts deployed, number of transactions, etc.

Reviewer: They can be redeemed but the payout differs based on the KPI target. 

Lets reuse a lot of the existing content here: https://medium.com/uma-project/uma-kpi-options-and-airdrop-bae86be16ce4

> At a high-level, KPI options are synthetic ERC20 tokens that can be redeemed , but only if the project hits it’s predetermined KPI targets before expiry. These targets are up to each project and could be TVL, number of contracts deployed, number of transactions, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At a high-level, KPI options are synthetic ERC20 tokens that can be redeemed, but only if the project hits it’s predetermined KPI targets before expiry. These targets are up to each project and could be TVL, number of contracts deployed, number of transactions, etc.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: KPI options  are ERC20 tokens which can be redeemed for a pre-determined number of protocol tokens, but only if the project reaches its predetemined KPI targets before the expiry date.  These targets can include the Total Value Locked, number of transactions, percentage of governance participation, token price....or any other metric you care to set. 

TVL options are a SMART choice

- Specific - you define the metic in advance
 

- advance

> Every community member airdropped these KPI options, becoming vested in helping the project succeed on its Key Metrics, as the token grows more valuable as the target approaches.  This provides powerful incentive alignment between the protocol and its community. 

Reviewer 2: If we move to @mhairimca's introduction, a lot of this content will become redundant. I think this section could get more granular and be a mix of What a KPI option is, and how the contract works.
- Expiring contract
- Sponsor mints erc20 synths backed by their protocol token, and airdrops them to protocol participants
- Price of the synth is based upon KPI thresholds
- At expiry, the synth becomes worth XYZ from KPI calculation

Just spitballing, but I think getting into the weeds on how the contract works would be beneficial and avoid redundant content.

Author: I was thinking of adding an example of how this works which would cover this section

> ### How it works?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Launch your own KPI option
```

> The first step is create an UMIP to add your token to our list of accepted collateral currencies (if it isn’t already). Then you'll need to 

Reviewer: To avoid duplication, lets refer them to https://docs.umaproject.org/uma-tokenholders/umips to understand the UMIP process

define the Key Performance Metrics. This can be any metric that is important to you, and that you think the community can help you achieve.

> Once the necessary UMIPs have been passed, the project will launch the contract.  After, they will lock your tokens tokens in the contract and mint the KPI Option tokens. 

Reviewer: I'm not following the second sentence. "they" is a bit vauge

The KPI options tokens can then be airdropped to community members. This can be current token holders or others, but presumably you’ll want them to be enthusiastic about helping you achieve your targets. 

On contract expiry, the synthetics will be redeemable according to the KPI’s progress. Alternatively, a project could decide to create a new KPI option to “roll over” into, compounding their own success and growth.

> ### Create options using UMA

Reviewer: Do we mention this anywhere else on the doc site? I want to be cognizant that we should try not to duplicate content that already lives somewhere else on our doc site

---
title: KPI Options
sidebar_label: KPI Options
---
## KPI Option Overview

Key Performance Indicator (KPI) Options are way for your protocol to encourage your community to participate in its growth by creating aligned incentives, where your community benefits from achieving your performance targets.

The aligned incentive means that your community's assistance in helping you reach your goals is rewarded and by working together all community members benefit by your protocol's growth.

### What are KPI options? 

Using UMA’s Expiring Multi Party (EMP) contract template, any project can create an incentive mechanism which offers rewards to their targeted community in exchange for the community’s support in helping them achieve their Key Performance Metrics. 

> At a high-level, KPI options are synthetic ERC20 tokens that can be redeemed, but only if the project hits it’s predetermined KPI targets before expiry. These targets are up to each project. TVL Options for DeFi protocols, Volume Options for exchange protocols or DAU Options for dapps

Reviewer 2: I don't think DAU is super widely used. Can you spell out Daily Active Users

Every community member airdropped these KPI options, becoming vested in helping the project succeed on its Key Metrics, as the token grows more valuable as the target approaches.  This provides powerful incentive alignment between the protocol and its community. 

### Launch your own KPI option

> The first step is [create an UMIP](https://docs.umaproject.org/uma-tokenholders/umips) to add your token to our list of accepted collateral currencies (if it isn’t already). Then you'll need to define the Key Performance Metrics. This can be any metric that is important to you, and that you think the community can help you achieve.

Reviewer 2: Just a suggestion of slight rewording. Wdyt?

```suggestion
The first step is to submit an UMA Improvement Proposal [(UMIP)](https://docs.umaproject.org/uma-tokenholders/umips) to add your token to our list of accepted collateral currencies (if it isn’t already). You will also need to submit a proposal to define how to price your option based off of your chosen KPI.
```

> Once the necessary UMIPs have been passed, the project will launch the contract.  After, the collateral tokens will locked in the contract and mint the KPI Option tokens. 

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest unifying the person that this is written in. Some of this uses third person (the project) while other parts use "you"/"your project". Personally, I like the latter better.

Personally I think this section could use just a little bit of elaboration on what the "contract deployment" process entails. Wdyt about this? 

```suggestion
Once the necessary UMIPs have been passed, your project will be able to deploy an expiring KPI options contract. This process is extremely simple, and requires no contract development work or experience! [Here](https://docs.umaproject.org/developers/emp-deployment) is a tutorial to walk you through the contract deployment process. After deployment, you will be able to lock your collateral in the contract and mint your KPI Option tokens. 
```

The KPI options tokens can then be airdropped to community members. This can be current token holders or others, but presumably you’ll want them to be enthusiastic about helping you achieve your targets. 

On contract expiry, the synthetics will be redeemable according to the KPI’s progress. Alternatively, a project could decide to create a new KPI option to “roll over” into, compounding their own success and growth.

### Create options using UMA

> UMA has a flexible [contract template](https://docs.umaproject.org/synthetic-tokens/what-are-synthetic-assets#the-expiringmultiparty-emp-contract-template) which has freedom to adjust contract parameter as needed (ie., collateral currency, expiry date, price identifier, etc.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
UMA has a flexible [expiring contract template](https://docs.umaproject.org/synthetic-tokens/what-are-synthetic-assets#the-expiringmultiparty-emp-contract-template) which allows for freedom to create a variety of expiring contracts, simply by adjusting contract deployment parameters (i.e. collateral currency, expiry date, price tracked etc.).
```

The project has the freedom to choose high value airdrop recipients, including their ideal community members, effective helpers or contributors to their ecosystem.

Our unique [DVM solution](https://docs.umaproject.org/synthetic-tokens/glossary#dvm) allows for an optimistic and economically incentivized decentralized solution to an otherwise, corruptible centralized oracle. 

### Next Steps & Resources 

> Read this [medium article](https://medium.com/uma-project/uma-kpi-options-and-airdrop-bae86be16ce4)  which reviews UMA’s example TVL Option. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Read this [medium article](https://medium.com/uma-project/uma-kpi-options-and-airdrop-bae86be16ce4) which explains UMA’s KPI Options. 
```
